---
title: Privacy Notice
description:
  Privacy notice for QuestDB website visitors and QuestDB users how we apply
  data protection principles.
wrapperClassName: supplemental
---

Last modified: 9 December 2022

---

## Open-Source Software (OSS) License & QuestDB Enterprise License

### Introduction

This privacy notice (“Privacy Notice”) applies to all visitors and users of the
QuestDB hosted services and websites (collectively, the “Website” or “Websites”)
and self-managed installations, which are offered by QuestDB Technology Inc
and/or any of its affiliates (“QuestDB” or “we” or “us”). Please read this
Privacy Notice carefully. By accessing or using any part of the Websites or
self-managed installations, you acknowledge you have been informed of and
consent to our practices with regard to your personal information and data.

QuestDB is an open source project and collaborative community, as well as a
company. This means that many portions of our Websites, including information
you voluntarily provide, will be public-facing for the open sharing of
innovative developments, ideas, and information that makes our collaborative
community so great. While we are committed to open sharing, we strive to respect
the privacy of individual community members and will minimize the information we
collect and share. If you do not want to share your information, including
personally identifiable information, with other community members and the
public, please be thoughtful as to how you interact with our Websites and what
information you provide through the Websites (for example, through creating a
public profile, project contributions, comments, and blog posts).

### Data Protection

Oversight of Data Security is handled by QuestDB&#39;s respective Data
Protection Officers. Should you wish to make modifications, deletions, or
additions to any personal data you believe to be captured by QuestDB, or if you
have any general security concerns, please contact us at
[privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io).

### What Information QuestDB Collects and Why

#### Information from Website Visitors

Like most website operators, QuestDB collects basic non-personally-identifying
information from Website visitors of the sort that web browsers and servers
typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference,
referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. We collect this
information to better understand how visitors use the Website, to improve our
Websites and experience for visitors, and to monitor the security of the
Websites. From time to time, QuestDB may publicly release
non-personally-identifying information collected from Website visitors in the
aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of the Website.

QuestDB also collects potentially personally-identifying information like
Internet Protocol (IP) addresses from visitors. QuestDB does not use such
information to identify or track individual visitors, however. We collect this
information to understand how visitors use the Websites, to improve performance
and content, and to monitor the security of the Websites.

QuestDB may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to our Websites.
For instance, QuestDB may reveal how many downloads can be attributed to a
particular software version using aggregated statistics that contain anonymous
user information only.

#### Usage Data Information from Self-managed QuestDB Instances

QuestDB collects anonymous application usage data from each self-managed QuestDB
instance (Open Source and Enterprise Edition). It is possible to
[opt out of application telemetry](/docs/reference/configuration#telemetry)
being transferred, and for self-managed QuestDB instances, we do not track end
users.

Telemetry data that is being collected include:

- The protocol used to interact with an instance API
- The type of event used via this protocol
- The time and frequency of these events
- An anonymous identifier of the instance
- The Class C network the telemetry data is sent from

### Personally-Identifying Information

Users of the Websites may choose to interact with QuestDB in ways that provide
us with their personally-identifying information. In some instances, a User ID
is generated for form and url tracking, page views, page pings and usage counts
in order to ascertain product performance and development. The amount and type
of information that QuestDB gathers depends on the nature of your interaction
with us, as well as the amount of information you choose to share. For example,
we ask visitors who use our community slack group to provide a username and
email address. We will also collect the information you provide with us in
connection with creating an account on the Website. Profile information is
shared publicly, as well as activity under your profile. If you report a
security vulnerability to QuestDB and request public acknowledgment, then we may
publicly disclose the personal information you provided to us in connection with
the report, including your name to fulfill your request for acknowledgment. In
each case, QuestDB collects such personally-identifiable information only
insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the user’s
interaction with or request of QuestDB. We will not disclose
personally-identifying information other than as described in this Privacy
Notice.

Visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with
the caveat that it may prevent you from engaging in certain Website-related
activities or being able to access and use certain features and services.

For details about what information is collected and with whom it is shared,
please go to What Information QuestDB Collects and Why.

### Where We Store Your Data

As part of the services offered to you, for example through our Website, the
information you provide to us may be transferred to and stored in countries
outside of the European Economic Area (EEA) as we use remote website server
hosts to provide the website and some aspects of our service, which may be based
outside of the EEA, or use servers based outside of the EEA - this is generally
the nature of data stored in “the Cloud”. It may also be processed by staff
operating outside the EEA who work for one of our suppliers, e.g. our website
server host, or work for us when temporarily outside of the EEA.

A transfer of your personal data may happen if any of our servers are located in
a country outside of the EEA or one of our service providers is located in a
country outside of the EEA. If we transfer or store your personal data outside
the EEA in this way, we will take steps with the aim of ensuring that your
privacy rights continue to be protected, as outlined in this privacy policy and
in accordance with the DPA and GDPR. If you use our service while you are
outside the EEA, your personal data may be transferred outside the EEA in order
to provide you with these services.

We do not use or disclose sensitive personal data, such as race, religion, or
political affiliations, without your explicit consent.

We may disclose your personal data outside of our group: (a) in the event that
we sell or buy any business or assets, in which case we may disclose your
personal data to the prospective seller or buyer of such business or assets; and
(b) if QuestDB’s business is bought by a third party, in which case personal
data held by it about its customers will be one of the assets to transfer to the
buyer. However, any such transfer will only be on terms that the confidentiality
of your personal data is protected and that the terms of this privacy policy
will continue to be complied with by the recipient.

Otherwise, we will process, disclose or share your personal data only if
required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such action is
necessary to comply with legal requirements or legal process served on us or the
website. By giving us your personal data, you agree to this arrangement. We will
do what we reasonably can to keep your data secure. You have the right to opt
out of our processing your personal data for marketing purposes by contacting us
at [privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io).

Although we try to provide protection, we cannot guarantee complete security for
your data, and you take the risk that any sending of that data turns out to be
not secure despite our efforts.

We will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfill the
purposes we collected it for as described above in section 6, including for the
purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or reporting requirements, and/or
for as long as we have your permission to keep it. To determine the appropriate
retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature, and
sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorized
use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your
personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and
the applicable legal requirements. In any event, we will conduct an annual
review to ascertain whether we need to keep your personal data. Your personal
data will be deleted if we no longer need it.

### Information QuestDB Does Not Collect

QuestDB does not intentionally collect sensitive personal information, such as
social security numbers, genetic data, health information, or religious
information. Although QuestDB does not request or intentionally collect any
sensitive personal information, we realize that users might store this kind of
information in a QuestDB instance by pushing it to us through our libraries or
API. If you store any sensitive personal information on QuestDB’s servers, you
are consenting to our storage of that information.

If you&#39;re a child under the age of 13, you may not have an account on the
Website. QuestDB does not knowingly collect information from or direct any of
our Website or content specifically to children under 13. If we learn or have
reason to suspect that a user is under the age of 13, we will close the child’s
account.

Other countries may have different minimum age limits. If you are below the
minimum age for providing consent for data collection in your country, you may
not use QuestDB.

### Basis for Processing Your Information

Performance of a contract. The use of your information may be necessary to
perform the contract that you have with us. For example, if you use our Websites
to purchase QuestDB product subscriptions or services, contribute to a project,
create a profile, post and comment through our Websites, or request information
through our Websites, we will use your information to carry out our obligation
to complete and administer that contract or request.

Legitimate interests. We use your information for our legitimate interests, such
as to provide you with the best content through our Websites and communications
with users and the public, to improve and promote our products and services, and
for administrative, security, fraud prevention and legal purposes.

Consent. We may rely on your consent to use your personal information for
certain direct marketing purposes, such as sending you newsletter updates about
QuestDB products. You may withdraw your consent at any time through the
unsubscribe feature provided with each marketing email or by contacting us at
the addresses given at the end of this Privacy Notice.

### How QuestDB Uses and Protects Personally-Identifying Information

#### Sharing Your Information

QuestDB only discloses potentially personally-identifying and
personally-identifying information to those of its employees, contractors, and
affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to
process it on QuestDB&#39;s behalf or to provide services available on the
Website, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others.

Please note, email and IP addresses of users of a QuestDB deployment may be
shared with the respective users of that deployment.

QuestDB will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and
personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees,
contractors, and affiliated organizations, as described above, QuestDB discloses
potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only
when required to do so by law, or when QuestDB believes in good faith that
disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of QuestDB,
third parties, or the public at large.

QuestDB takes measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized
access, use, alteration, or destruction of potentially personally-identifying
and personally-identifying information.

QuestDB at its sole discretion may make use of company logos where those
companies are using the software that we provide. If you have concerns over the
use of your logo, please email [logos@questdb.io](mailto:logos@questdb.io).

#### International Transfer of Information

Our employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that process information
for us as described above may be located in regions other than your home
country; by using the Website, you consent to the international transfer of your
information by QuestDB. QuestDB will take appropriate steps to ensure that
transfers of personal information are in accordance with applicable law and
carefully managed to protect your privacy rights and interests.

### QuestDB Communications with You

If you are a registered user of the Websites and have supplied your email
address, QuestDB may occasionally send you an email to inform you about
security, system information, new features, solicit your feedback, or send
QuestDB product updates. We primarily use our blog to communicate this
information, so we aim to keep this type of email communication to a minimum. An
unsubscribe link is located at the bottom of each marketing email to allow
recipients to update their email preferences and to opt out of such emails.

If you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our
feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish your request in order to
help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. We
will not publish your personally-identifiable information in connection with
your request.

### Cookies, Tracking Technologies and Do Not Track

#### Cookies

A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor&#39;s
computer, and that the visitor&#39;s browser provides to the website each time
the visitor returns. QuestDB uses cookies to help QuestDB identify and track
visitors, their usage of the Websites, and their Website access preferences.
QuestDB visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers may
set their browsers to refuse cookies before using the Websites. Disabling
browser cookies may cause certain features of QuestDB&#39;s websites to not
function properly.

Certain pages on the Website may set other third party cookies. For example, we
may embed content, such as videos, from another site that sets a cookie. These
sites set their own cookies and we do not have access or control over these
cookies. The use of cookies by third parties is not covered by our Privacy
Notice.

#### Tracking Technologies

We may use third party tracking services, but we don’t use these services to
track you individually or collect your personally identifiable-information. We
may use these services to collect information about how the Website performs and
how users navigate through and use the Website so we can monitor and improve our
content and Website performance.

Third party tracking services gather certain simple, non-personally identifying
information over time, such as your IP address, browser type, internet service
provider, referring and exit pages, timestamp, and similar data about your use
of the Website. We do not link this information to any of your personal
information such as your user name.

#### Do Not Track

&quot;Do Not Track&quot; is a privacy preference you can set in your browser if
you do not want online services to collect and share certain kinds of
information about your online activity from third party tracking services.
QuestDB does not track your online browsing activity on other online services
over time and we do not permit third-party services to track your activity on
our site beyond our basic tracking, which you may opt out of. Because we do not
share this kind of data with third party services or permit this kind of third
party data collection for any of our users, and we do not track our users on
third-party websites ourselves, we do not need to respond differently to an
individual browser&#39;s Do Not Track setting.

### Global Privacy Practices

We understand that users from other countries may have different expectations
and rights with regard to their privacy. For all Website visitors and users, no
matter their country of location, we will:

- provide clear methods of unambiguous, informed consent when we do collect your
  personal information;
- only collect the minimum amount of personal data necessary for the purpose it
  is collected for, unless you choose to provide us more;
- offer you simple methods of accessing, correcting, or deleting your
  information that we have collected, with the exception of information you
  voluntarily provide that is necessary to retain as is for the integrity of our
  project code as described further below; and
- provide Website users notice, choice, accountability, security, and access,
  and we limit the purpose for processing. We also provide our users a method of
  recourse and enforcement.

If you are located in the European Union, you are entitled to the following
rights with regard to your personal information and data:

- Right of access to your personal data, to know what information about you we
  hold
- Right to correct any incorrect or incomplete personal data about yourself that
  we hold
- Right to restrict/suspend our processing of your personal data
- Right to complain to a supervisory authority if you believe your privacy
  rights are being violated

Additional rights that may apply to you in certain instances:

- Right of data portability (if our processing is based on consent and automated
  means)
- Right to withdraw consent at any time (if processing is based on consent)
- Right to object to processing (if processing is based on legitimate interests)
- Right to object to processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes
- Right of erasure of your personal data from our system (“right to be
  forgotten”) if certain grounds are met

To exercise your privacy rights, you can email us at the address given below in
the ‘Contacting QuestDB About Your Privacy’ section of this Privacy Notice.

### Data Retention and Deletion

If you already have an account on the Websites, you may access, update, alter,
or delete your basic user profile information by logging into your account and
updating profile settings.

QuestDB will retain your information for as long as your account is active or as
needed to perform our contractual obligations, provide you services through the
Website, to comply with legal obligations, resolve disputes, preserve legal
rights, or enforce our agreements.

Please note that due to the open source nature of our products, services, and
community, we may retain limited personally-identifiable information
indefinitely in order to ensure transactional integrity and non-repudiation. For
example, if you provide your information in connection with a blog post, GitHub
issue or comment, we may display that information even if you have deleted your
account as we do not automatically delete community posts. Also, as described in
our Terms of Use, if you contribute to a QuestDB project and provide your
personal information in connection with that contribution, that information
(including your name) will be embedded and publicly displayed with your
contribution and we will not be able to delete or erase it because doing so
would break the project code.

### Contacting QuestDB About Your Privacy

If you have questions or concerns about the way we are handling your
information, or would like to exercise your privacy rights, please email us with
the subject line &quot;Privacy Concern&quot; at
[privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io) where we will respond within 30
days of receiving your message.

### Privacy Notice Changes

Although most changes are likely to be minor, QuestDB may change its privacy
notice from time to time, and in QuestDB&#39;s sole discretion.

We may also provide notification to users who have provided us email addresses
of material changes to this Privacy Notice through our Website. QuestDB
encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any minor changes to its
Privacy Notice. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy
Notice will constitute your acceptance of such change.

---

_Credit to GitLab for the initial version of the above policy._

---

# QuestDB Cloud

## Introduction

QuestDB Technology Inc. (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates cloud.questdb.com
(hereinafter referred to as “**Service**”).

Our Privacy Policy governs your visit to cloud.questdb.com, and explains how we
collect, safeguard and disclose information that results from your use of our
Service.

We use your data to provide and improve Service. By using Service, you agree to
the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. Unless
otherwise defined in this Privacy Policy, the terms used in this Privacy Policy
have the same meanings as in our Terms and Conditions.

Our Terms and Conditions (“**Terms**”) govern all use of our Service and
together with the Privacy Policy constitutes your agreement with us
(“**agreement**”).

## Definitions

**SERVICE** means the cloud.questdb.com website operated by QuestDB Technology
Inc..

**PERSONAL DATA** means data about a living individual who can be identified
from those data (or from those and other information either in our possession or
likely to come into our possession).

**USAGE DATA** is data collected automatically either generated by the use of
Service or from Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a
page visit).

**COOKIES** are small files stored on your device (computer or mobile device).

**DATA CONTROLLER** means a natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly
or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the
manner in which any personal data are, or are to be, processed. For the purpose
of this Privacy Policy, we are a Data Controller of your data.

**DATA PROCESSORS (OR SERVICE PROVIDERS)** means any natural or legal person who
processes the data on behalf of the Data Controller. We may use the services of
various Service Providers in order to process your data more effectively.

**DATA SUBJECT** is any living individual who is the subject of Personal Data.

**THE USER** is the individual using our Service. The User corresponds to the
Data Subject, who is the subject of Personal Data.

## Information Collection and Use

We collect several different types of information for various purposes to
provide and improve our Service to you.

### Types of Data Collected

**Personal Data**

While using our Service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally
identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you
(“**Personal Data**”). Personally identifiable information may include, but is
not limited to:

- Email address
- First name and last name
- Phone number
- Address, State, Province, ZIP/Postal code, City
- Cookies and Usage Data

We may use your Personal Data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or
promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. You
may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by
emailing at [support@questdb.io](mailto:support@questdb.io).

**Usage Data**

We may also collect information that your browser sends whenever you visit our
Service or when you access Service by or through a mobile device (“**Usage
Data**”).

This Usage Data may include information such as your computer's Internet
Protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser type, browser version, the pages of
our Service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on
those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data.

When you access Service with a mobile device, this Usage Data may include
information such as the type of mobile device you use, your mobile device unique
ID, the IP address of your mobile device, your mobile operating system, the type
of mobile Internet browser you use, unique device identifiers and other
diagnostic data.

**Location Data**

We may use and store information about your location if you give us permission
to do so (“**Location Data**”). We use this data to provide features of our
Service, to improve and customize our Service.

You can enable or disable location services when you use our Service at any time
by way of your device settings.

**Tracking Cookies Data**

We use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our
Service and we hold certain information.

Cookies are files with a small amount of data which may include an anonymous
unique identifier. Cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on
your device. Other tracking technologies are also used such as beacons, tags and
scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyze our Service.

You can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie
is being sent. However, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use
some portions of our Service.

Examples of Cookies we use:

**Session Cookies**: We use Session Cookies to operate our Service.

**Preference Cookies**: We use Preference Cookies to remember your preferences
and various settings.

**Security Cookies**: We use Security Cookies for security purposes.

**Other Data**

While using our Service, we may also collect the following information: date of
birth, address, telephone number and other data.

### Use of Data

QuestDB Technology Inc. uses the collected data for various purposes:

- to provide and maintain our Service;
- to notify you about changes to our Service;
- to allow you to participate in interactive features of our Service when you
  choose to do so;
- to provide customer support;
- to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our Service;
- to monitor the usage of our Service;
- to detect, prevent and address technical issues;
- to fulfill any other purpose for which you provide it;
- to carry out our obligations and enforce our rights arising from any contracts
  entered into between you and us, including for billing and collection;
- to provide you with notices about your account and/or subscription, including
  expiration and renewal notices, email-instructions, etc.;
- to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other
  goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you
  have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive
  such information;
- in any other way we may describe when you provide the information;
- for any other purpose with your consent.

## Retention of Data

We will retain your Personal Data only for as long as is necessary for the
purposes set out in this Privacy Policy. We will retain and use your Personal
Data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example,
if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve
disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies.

We will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes. Usage Data is
generally retained for a shorter period, except when this data is used to
strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our Service, or we
are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods.

### Transfer of Data

Your information, including Personal Data, may be transferred to – and
maintained on – computers located outside of your state, province, country or
other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ from
those of your jurisdiction.

If you are located outside United States and choose to provide information to
us, please note that we transfer the data, including Personal Data, to United
States and process it there.

Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by your submission of such
information represents your agreement to that transfer.

QuestDB Technology Inc. will take all the steps reasonably necessary to ensure
that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy
and no transfer of your Personal Data will take place to an organisation or a
country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of
your data and other personal information.

### Disclosure of Data

We may disclose personal information that we collect, or you provide:

- Disclosure for Law Enforcement.
  - Under certain circumstances, we may be required to disclose your Personal
    Data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public
    authorities.
- Business Transaction.
  - If we or our subsidiaries are involved in a merger, acquisition or asset
    sale, your Personal Data may be transferred.
- Other cases

We may disclose your information also:

- to our subsidiaries and affiliates;
- to contractors, service providers, and other third parties we use to support
  our business;
- to fulfill the purpose for which you provide it;
- for the purpose of including your company’s logo on our website;
- for any other purpose disclosed by us when you provide the information;
- with your consent in any other cases;
- if we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights,
  property, or safety of the Company, our customers, or others.

### Security of Data

The security of your data is important to us but remember that no method of
transmission over the Internet or method of electronic storage is 100% secure.
While we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your Personal
Data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.

### Your Data Protection Rights Under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

If you are a resident of the European Union (EU) and European Economic Area
(EEA), you have certain data protection rights, covered by GDPR. – See more at
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/oj

We aim to take reasonable steps to allow you to correct, amend, delete, or limit
the use of your Personal Data.

If you wish to be informed what Personal Data we hold about you and if you want
it to be removed from our systems, please email us at
[privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io). In certain circumstances, you
have the following data protection rights:

- the right to access, update or to delete the information we have on you;
- the right of rectification. You have the right to have your information
  rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete;
- the right to object. You have the right to object to our processing of your
  Personal Data;
- the right of restriction. You have the right to request that we restrict the
  processing of your personal information;
- the right to data portability. You have the right to be provided with a copy
  of your Personal Data in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used
  format;
- the right to withdraw consent. You also have the right to withdraw your
  consent at any time where we rely on your consent to process your personal
  information;

Please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before responding to
such requests. Please note, we may not able to provide Service without some
necessary data.

You have the right to complain to a Data Protection Authority about our
collection and use of your Personal Data. For more information, please contact
your local data protection authority in the European Economic Area (EEA).

### Your Data Protection Rights under the California Privacy Protection Act (CalOPPA)

CalOPPA is the first state law in the nation to require commercial websites and
online services to post a privacy policy. The law’s reach stretches well beyond
California to require a person or company in the United States (and conceivable
the world) that operates websites collecting personally identifiable information
from California consumers to post a conspicuous privacy policy on its website
stating exactly the information being collected and those individuals with whom
it is being shared, and to comply with this policy. – See more at:
https://consumercal.org/about-cfc/cfc-education-foundation/california-online-privacy-protection-act-caloppa-3/
According to CalOPPA we agree to the following:

- users can visit our site anonymously;
- our Privacy Policy link includes the word “Privacy”, and can easily be found
  on the page specified above on the home page of our website;
- users will be notified of any privacy policy changes on our Privacy Policy
  Page;
- users are able to change their personal information by emailing us at
  [privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io).

### Our Policy on “Do Not Track” Signals

We honor Do Not Track signals and do not track, plant cookies, or use
advertising when a Do Not Track browser mechanism is in place. Do Not Track is a
preference you can set in your web browser to inform websites that you do not
want to be tracked.

You can enable or disable Do Not Track by visiting the Preferences or Settings
page of your web browser.

### Service Providers

We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our Service
(“**Service Providers**”), provide Service on our behalf, perform
Service-related services or assist us in analysing how our Service is used.

These third parties have access to your Personal Data only to perform these
tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other
purpose.

### Analytics

We may use third-party Service Providers to monitor and analyze the use of our
Service.

**Google Analytics**

Google Analytics is a web analytics service offered by Google that tracks and
reports website traffic. Google uses the data collected to track and monitor the
use of our Service. This data is shared with other Google services. Google may
use the collected data to contextualise and personalise the ads of its own
advertising network.

For more information on the privacy practices of Google, please visit the Google
Privacy Terms web page: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en

We also encourage you to review the Google's policy for safeguarding your data:
https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245.

**PostHog**

PostHog is a product analytics platform built for the modern enterprise, with
the differentiators of being open source and having a broader view of the tools
needed to make a product successful.

For more information about PostHog, please visit their Privacy Policy:
https://posthog.com/privacy

**CI/CD tools**

We may use third-party Service Providers to automate the development process of
our Service.

**GitHub**

GitHub is provided by GitHub, Inc.

GitHub is a development platform to host and review code, manage projects, and
build software.

For more information on what data GitHub collects for what purpose and how the
protection of the data is ensured, please visit GitHub Privacy Policy page:
https://help.github.com/en/articles/github-privacy-statement.

### Behavioral Remarketing

QuestDB Technology Inc. may use remarketing services to advertise on third party
websites to you after you visited our Service. We and our third-party vendors
use cookies to inform, optimise and serve ads based on your past visits to our
Service.

**Google Ads (AdWords)**

Google Ads (AdWords) remarketing service is provided by Google Inc.

You can opt-out of Google Analytics for Display Advertising and customize the
Google Display Network ads by visiting the Google Ads Settings page:
http://www.google.com/settings/ads

Google also recommends installing the Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on –
https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout – for your web browser. Google
Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on provides visitors with the ability to prevent
their data from being collected and used by Google Analytics.

For more information on the privacy practices of Google, please visit the Google
Privacy Terms web page: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en

**Twitter**

Twitter remarketing service is provided by Twitter Inc.

You can opt-out from Twitter's interest-based ads by following their
instructions: https://support.twitter.com/articles/20170405

You can learn more about the privacy practices and policies of Twitter by
visiting their Privacy Policy page: https://twitter.com/privacy

### Payments

We may provide paid products and/or services within Service. In that case, we
use third-party services for payment processing (e.g. payment processors).

We will not store or collect your payment card details. That information is
provided directly to our third-party payment processors whose use of your
personal information is governed by their Privacy Policy. These payment
processors adhere to the standards set by PCI-DSS as managed by the PCI Security
Standards Council, which is a joint effort of brands like Visa, Mastercard,
American Express and Discover. PCI-DSS requirements help ensure the secure
handling of payment information.

The payment processors we work with are:

**Stripe**: Their Privacy Policy can be viewed at: https://stripe.com/us/privacy

### Links to Other Sites

Our Service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. If you
click a third party link, you will be directed to that third party's site. We
strongly advise you to review the Privacy Policy of every site you visit. We
have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy
policies or practices of any third party sites or services.

### Children's Privacy

Our Services are not intended for use by children under the age of 18 (“Child”
or “Children”). We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information
from Children under 18. If you become aware that a Child has provided us with
Personal Data, please contact us. If we become aware that we have collected
Personal Data from Children without verification of parental consent, we take
steps to remove that information from our servers.

### Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any
changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.

We will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our Service, prior
to the change becoming effective and update “effective date” at the top of this
Privacy Policy.

You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes.
Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.

### Contact Us

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us: By
email: [privacy@questdb.io](mailto:privacy@questdb.io).
