---
title: Speeding up InfluxDB line protocol
author: Tancrede Collard
author_title: QuestDB Team
author_url: https://github.com/TheTanc
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/TheTanc
description:
  Comparison between InfluxDB and QuestDB regarding the performance of the line
  protocol when ingesting data.
keywords:
  - timeseries
  - influxdb
  - questdb
  - database
tags: [engineering, performance, influxdb, telegraf]
image: /img/blog/shared/og-influxdb.png
---

InfluxDB is the current market leader in time series. This post examines their
ingestion format called **InfluxDB line protocol (ILP)** and compares data
ingestion performance between QuestDB and InfluxDB. We'll look at data loss over
UDP and some of the reasons why QuestDB is more efficient at ingesting records
in ILP.

<!--truncate-->

It would not be an overstatement to say that InfluxDB uses a lot of CPU. We set
ourselves to build a receiver for ILP, which stores data faster than InfluxDB
while being hardware efficient.

**Update 09-07-2021:** Our community contributor Yitaek Hwang has put together
an article which
[compares InfluxDB, TimescaleDB and QuestDB](/blog/2021/07/05/comparing-questdb-timescaledb-influxdb/)
which may be useful for an up-to-date feature overview.

## Why does QuestDB now support InfluxDB line protocol?

Starting with QuestDB 4.0.4, users can ingest data through ILP and use standard
SQL to query InfluxDB data alongside other tables in a relational database while
keeping the flexibility of ILP.

import Screenshot from "@theme/Screenshot"

<Screenshot
  alt="A diagram showing QuestDB ingesting schema-agnostic InfluxDB line protocol and relational data"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2021-07-05/questdb-influxdb-postgres-join.png"
  width={770}
/>

## Data loss over UDP

:::note

The UDP receiver is deprecated since QuestDB version 6.5.2.
We recommend the [TCP receiver](/docs/reference/api/ilp/tcp-receiver/) instead.

:::

We have conducted our testing over UDP, thus expecting some level of data loss.
However, we did not anticipate that InfluxDB would lose so much. We have built a
sender, which caches outgoing messages in a small buffer before sending them to
a UDP socket. It sends data as fast as possible to overpower the consumers and
introduce packet loss eventually. To test for different use cases, we have
throttled the sender by varying its buffer size. A smaller buffer results in
more frequent network calls and results in lower sending rates.

The benchmark publishes 50 million messages at various speeds. We then measure
the number of entries in each DB after the fact to calculate the implied capture
rate.

We use the Dell XPS 15 7590, 64Gb RAM, 6-core i9 CPU, 1TB SSD drive. In this
experiment, both the sender and QuestDB/InfluxDB instances run on the same
machine. UDP publishing is over loopback. OS is Fedora 31, OS UDP buffer size
(`net.core.rmem_max`) is `104_857_600`.

## It comes down to ingestion speed

Database performance is the bottleneck that results in packet loss. Messages are
denied entry, and the loss rate is a direct function of the underlying database
speed. By sending 50M messages at different speeds, we get the following
outcome.

<Screenshot
  alt="Table showing a comparison of the capture rate between QuestDB and InfluxDB"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/captureRate.png"
  width={770}
  title="Capture rate as a function of sender speed"
/>

InfluxDB's capture rate rapidly drops below 50%, eventually converging toward
single-digit rates.

<Screenshot
  alt="Chart showing a comparison of the capture rate between QuestDB and InfluxDB"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/captureRateChart.png"
  width={770}
  title="Capture rate as a function of sender speed"
/>

QuestDB's ingestion speed results are obtained through ILP. Our ingestion speed
is considerably higher while using our native input formats instead.

<Screenshot
  alt="Chart showing a comparison of the capture rate between QuestDB and InfluxDB"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/impliedSpeed.png"
  width={770}
  title="Implied ingestion speed in function of Sender speed"
/>

## Why is the sender's rate slower for InfluxDB compared to QuestDB?

In this test, we run the sender and the DB on the same machine, and it turns out
that InfluxDB slows down our UDP sender by cannibalizing the CPU. Here is what
happens to your CPUs while using InfluxDB:

<Screenshot
  alt="Bar chart showing the CPU usage of InfluxDB, idle versus under load"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/impliedSpeed.png"
  width={770}
  title="InfluxDB’s CPU usage when serving requests"
/>

When in use, InfluxDB saturates all of the CPU. As a consequence, it slows down
any other program running on the same machine.

## QuestDB's secret sauce

We maximize the utilization of each CPU, from which we extract as much
performance as possible. For the example below, we compared InfluxDB's ingestion
speed using 12 cores to QuestDB using one CPU core only. Despite utilizing one
core instead of 12, QuestDB still outperforms InfluxDB significantly.

If spare CPU capacity arises, QuestDB will execute multiple data ingestion in
parallel, leveraging multiple CPUs at the same time, but with one key
difference; QuestDB uses work-stealing algorithms to ensure every last bit of
CPU capacity is used while never being idle. Let us illustrate why this is the
case.

Modern network cards have much superior throughput than the single receiver.
Being limited to one receiver by design, InfluxDB considerably under-utilizes
the network card, which is the limiting factor in the pipeline.

<Screenshot
  alt="Chart showing InfluxDB's queuing mechanism"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/queueInflux.png"
  width={770}
  title="All CPU cores open one single receiver that under-utilizes the network card"
/>

Conversely, QuestDB can open parallel receivers (requiring one core each), fully
utilizing the network card capabilities. The following illustration assumes that
there would be spare CPU capacity in other cores to be filled. In such a
scenario we would get QuestDB utilizing 12 cores, with each one of those being
considerably faster than InfluxDB's combined 12 cores!

<Screenshot
  alt="Chart showing QuestDB's queuing mechanism"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/queueQuest.png"
  width={770}
  title="Each CPU core opens an independent receiver working in parallel that fully leverages the network card"
/>

Besides ingestion, InfluxDB also saturates the CPU on queries. The current user
cannibalizes the whole CPU, while other users have to wait for their turn.

<Screenshot
  alt="How the CPU is shared under InfluxDB's load"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/userInflux.png"
  width={770}
  title="Users monopolize all CPU cores one after the other"
/>

By contrast, QuestDB uses each core separately, allowing multiple users to query
or write concurrently without delay. The performance gap between QuestDB and
InfluxDB grows significantly as the number of simultaneous users increases.

<Screenshot
  alt="How the CPU is shared under QuestDB's load"
  height={591}
  src="/img/blog/2019-12-19/userQuest.png"
  width={770}
  title="Users share CPU cores and are served concurrently, with full CPU core utilization."
/>

## Get started

QuestDB supports ILP over UDP multicast and unicast sockets. TCP support will
follow shortly. You don't need to change anything in your application. For
Telegraf, you can configure the UDP sender for QuestDB's address and port.

Follow this link to [download QuestDB](/get-questdb). You can also use our
[sender]({@githubUrl@}/blob/master/benchmarks/src/main/java/org/questdb/LineUDPSenderMain.java)
against QuestDB and InfluxDB to reproduce the experiment.
