---
title: Grafana
description: Guide for time series data visualization with QuestDB and Grafana
---

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a popular observability and monitoring
application used to visualize data and has an extensive ecosystem of widgets and
plugins. QuestDB supports connecting to Grafana via the
[Postgres](/docs/reference/api/postgres) endpoint. There's also a
[complete tutorial](/blog/2020/10/19/grafana-tutorial) that shows you how to use
QuestDB with Grafana step by step.

## Prerequisites

- [Grafana](https://grafana.com/grafana/download) should be installed and
  running.
- QuestDB should be installed and running via
  [Docker](/docs/get-started/docker), the
  [binaries](/docs/get-started/binaries) or
  [Homebrew](/docs/get-started/homebrew) for macOS users.

## Configure database

To avoid unnecessary memory usage, it is recommended to disable QuestDB's SELECT
query cache by setting the property `pg.select.cache.enabled=false` in your
`server.conf`. That's because Grafana does not use prepared statements when
sending the queries and the query cache becomes much less efficient.

## Add a data source

1. Open Grafana's UI (by default available at `http://localhost:3000`)
2. Go to the `Configuration` section and click on `Data sources`
3. Click `Add data source`
4. Choose the `PostgreSQL` plugin and configure it with the following settings:

```bash
host: localhost:8812
database: qdb
user: admin
password: quest
SSL mode: disable
```

5. When adding a panel, use the "text edit mode" by clicking the pencil icon and
   adding a query

## Global variables

To simplify queries which have dynamic elements such as date range filters, the
query can contain global variables which are documented in the
[Grafana reference documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/variables/variable-types/global-variables/#global-variables).

### `$__timeFilter(timestamp)`

This variable allows filtering results by sending a start-time and end-time to
QuestDB. This expression evaluates to:

```questdb-sql
timestamp BETWEEN
    '2018-02-01T00:00:00Z' AND '2018-02-28T23:59:59Z'
```

### `$__interval`

This variable calculates a dynamic interval based on the time range applied to
the dashboard. By using this function, the sampling interval changes
automatically as the user zooms in and out of the panel.

## Example query

```
SELECT
  pickup_datetime AS time,
  avg(trip_distance) AS distance
FROM taxi_trips
WHERE $__timeFilter(pickup_datetime)
SAMPLE BY $__interval;
```

## Known issues

For alert queries generated by certain Grafana versions, the macro `$__timeFilter(timestamp)` produces timestamps with nanosecond precision, while the expected precision is millisecond precision. As a result, the alert queries are not compatible with QuestDB and lead to an `Invalid date` error. To resolve this, we recommend the following workaround:

```questdb-sql
SELECT 
  pickup_datetime AS time, 
  avg(trip_distance) AS distance 
FROM taxi_trips 
WHERE pickup_datetime BETWEEN cast($__unixEpochFrom()*1000000L as timestamp) and cast($__unixEpochTo()*1000000L as timestamp)

```

See [Grafana issues](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/51611) for more information.

